TractoR consists of several R packages and a set of other files which provide
an interface to key functions within those packages. The interface requires a
"bash" shell, and is therefore only designed to work on Unix-like operating
systems, such as Linux or Mac OS X. In particular, it will not work directly on
Windows, and Windows users are therefore recommended to run Linux within a
virtual machine, and then install TractoR (and R) within that virtual
environment. The virtual machine image provided by the FSL package
<http://www.fmrib.ox.ac.uk/fsl/> is one suitable example.

QUICK INSTALLATION FOR KNOWLEDGEABLE USERS
==========================================

1. Install R if necessary. See <http://www.r-project.org>.

2. Open a terminal, navigate to the uncompressed "tractor" directory and type

     make install-all

3. Create or update the TRACTOR_HOME environment variable to point to the
   "tractor" directory, include ${TRACTOR_HOME}/bin on the PATH and
   ${TRACTOR_HOME}/man on the MANPATH.

4. Consider installing ImageMagick <http://www.imagemagick.org/> and/or FSL
   <http://www.fmrib.ox.ac.uk/fsl/> if they are not already installed. They are
   used by some elements of TractoR's functionality.

DETAILS AND STEP-BY-STEP EXPLANATION
====================================

Before installing TractoR, R must be installed. R runs on almost all platforms
and is simple to install. It can be obtained from <http://www.r-project.org>.

Once R is installed, the TractoR R packages can be installed by opening a
terminal window and running

  make install

from the uncompressed "tractor" directory. If you also wish to install the
native packages, which provide faster tractography and parallel processing
capabilities, type

  make install-native

A C compiler must be available for this to work, but R will handle all of the
code compilation details for you. To test that the installation was successful,
type

  make clean test

and a series of standard tests will be run.

For the "tractor" interface to function correctly, the TRACTOR_HOME and PATH
environment variables should be set appropriately. To do this, add the
following lines to your ~/.bashrc (or equivalent for other shells):

  export TRACTOR_HOME=/Users/jon/svn/tractor
  export PATH=${TRACTOR_HOME}/bin:${PATH}
  export MANPATH=${TRACTOR_HOME}/man:${MANPATH}

To make sure that "login" shells also pick up these variables, you may also
wish to point your ~/.bash_profile at ~/.bashrc. This can be achieved with the
line

  [ -f ~/.bashrc ] && source ~/.bashrc

in ~/.bash_profile (create this file if it doesn't exist). To check that
everything is functioning correctly, you can try the following commands after
opening a new terminal window:

  cat ${TRACTOR_HOME}/VERSION   # should print the current TractoR version
  man tractor                   # should open the "tractor" man page
  tractor -z list               # should list the TractoR scripts installed

For further information on using the TractoR interface, type "tractor -h" or
take a look at the man page. To find out what a particular script does, type
"tractor -o (script_name)", replacing "(script_name)" with the name of the
script you are interested in.

Finally, you may want to consider also installing ImageMagick
<http://www.imagemagick.org/> and/or FSL <http://www.fmrib.ox.ac.uk/fsl/>, if
they are not already installed. They are used by some elements of TractoR's
functionality, so installing both will avoid any problems with missing software
later.

